Psalm 1 Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth
in the way of sinners, nor siteth in the seat of this corn-full.
But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night.
And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit
in his season.
His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.
The ungodly are not so, for alike a chaff which the wind drieth away.
Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgments, nor sinners in the congregation
of the righteous.
For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, for the way of the ungodly shall perish.
Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?
The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against
the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their ban to sender, and cast
away their courts from us.
He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh, the Lord shall have him in direction.
Then shall I speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his story of displeasure.
Yes, have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion.
I will declare the decree.
The Lord hath said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee.
Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost
parts of the earth for thy possession.
Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron.
Thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel.
Be wise now, therefore, O ye kings.
He instructed the ejections of the earth.
Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling.
Kiss the sun, lest ye be angry, and be perished from the way, when his wrath was kindled
but a little.
Blessed are all they that put their trust in him.
Chapter 3
Lord, how are they increased that trouble me?
Many are they that rise up against me.
Many there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him in God.
Selah.
That thou, O Lord, art the shield for me, My glory, and the blister up of mine head.
I cried unto the Lord with my voice, And he heard me out of his holy hill.
Selah.
I laid me down and slept.
I awaked for the Lord to save me.
I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people that have set themselves against me round
about.
Arise, O Lord.
Save me, O my God, for thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon their cheekbone.
Thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly.
Salvation belongeth unto the Lord.
Thy blessing is upon thy people.
Selah.
Chapter 4
Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness.
Thou hast enlarged me when I was in distress.
Have mercy upon me and hear my prayer.
O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame?
How long will ye allow vanity and seek out releasing?
Selah.
But know that the Lord hath set apart for him that is godly for himself.
The Lord will hear when I call unto him.
Stand and not and sin not.
Commune with your own heart upon your bed and be still.
Selah.
Offer the sacrifice of the righteousness and put your trust in the Lord.
There be many that say, He will show us any good.
Lord, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us.
Thou hast put gladness in my heart more than in a time that their horn and their wine increased.
I will both lay me down in peace and sleep.
For thou, Lord, only makest me dwell in safety.
Chapter 5
Give yield to my words, O Lord.
Consider my meditation.
Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King and my God, for unto thee will I pray.
My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O Lord.
In the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee and will look up.
For thou art not a god that hath pleasure and wickedness.
Neither shall evil dwell with thee.
The foolish shall not stand in thy sight.
Thou hast distraught workers of iniquity.
Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing.
The Lord will abhor the bloody and deceitful man.
But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy mercy.
And in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple.
Lead me, O Lord, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies.
Make thy way straight before my face.
For there is no faithfulness in their mouth.
Their inward part is very wickedness.
Their throat is an open sopacher.
They flatter with their tongue.
Destroy thou them, O God.
Let them fall by their own counsels.
Cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions.
For they have rebelled against thee.
But let all those out that their trust in thee rejoice.
Let them ever shout for joy because thou defendest them.
Let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee.
For that, O Lord, wilt bless the righteous.
With favor wilt thou compass him as with the shield.
O Lord, repute me not in thy anger.
Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure.
Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am weak.
O Lord, heal me, for my bones are vexed.
My soul is also sore vexed.
But thou, O Lord, how long?
Be torn, O Lord, deliver my soul.
O, save me for thy mercy's sake.
For in death there is no remembrance of thee.
And the great face shall give thee thanks.
I am weary with my groaning.
All the night I make on my bed is swim.
I water my couch with my tears.
My night is consumed because of grief.
It waxeth all because of all mine enemies.
Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity.
For the Lord hath heard the voice of my weeping.
The Lord hath heard my supplication.
The Lord will receive my prayer.
Let all mine enemies be ashamed in store of acts.
Let them return and be ashamed suddenly.
O Lord, my God, in thee do I put my trust.
Save me from all them that persecute me and deliver me.
Lest ye tear my soul like a lion,
running it in pieces while there is none to deliver.
O Lord, my God, if I have done this,
if there be iniquity in my hands,
if I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me,
yea, I have delivered him that without cause is my enemy.
Let the enemy persecute my soul and take it.
Yea, let him trap down my life upon the earth
and lay mine honor in the dust.
Selah.
Arise, O Lord, and on anger.
Lift up thyself because of the rage of mine enemies
and await for me to the judgment that thou hast commanded.
So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about.
For their sakes, therefore, return thou on high.
The Lord shall judge the people.
Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness
and according to mine integrity that is in me.
O, let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end,
but establish adjust,
for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reigns.
By defenses of God, which saveth the upright in heart.
God judgeeth the righteous,
and God is angry with the wicked every day.
If he turn not, he will wet his sword.
He hath bent his bow and made it ruddy.
He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death.
He ordaineth his arrows against the prosecutors.
Behold, he too vileth with iniquity,
and hath conceived mischief,
and brought forth falsehood.
He made a pit and digged it,
and has fallen into the ditch which he made.
His mischief shall return upon his own head,
and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own pate.
I will praise the Lord according to his righteousness,
and will sing praise to the name of the Lord most high.
O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!
Who hast set thy glory above the heavens?
Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings
hast thou obeying strength because of thine enemies,
that thou might distill the enemy and the avenger.
When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers,
the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained,
what is mean that thou art mindful of him,
and the son of man that thou visitest him?
For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels,
and hast crowned him with glory and honor.
Thou hast made him to have dominion over the works of thy hands.
Thou hast put all things under his feet.
O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!
I will praise thee, O Lord, with my whole heart.
I will show forth all thy marvelous works.
I will be glad and rejoice in thee.
I will sing praise to thy name, O thou Most High.
When my enemies are turned back,
they shall fall and perish at thy presence.
For thou hast maintained my right to my cause.
Thou saddest in the throne judging right.
Thou hast rebuked the heathen. Thou hast destroyed the wicked.
Thou hast put out their name for ever and ever.
O thou enemy,
destructions are come to a perpetual end,
and thou hast destroyed cities.
Their memorial is perished with them.
But the Lord shall endure forever.
He hath prepared his throne for judgment,
and he shall judge the world of righteousness.
He shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness.
The Lord also will be a refuge for the oppressed,
a refuge in times of trouble.
And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee.
For thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.
Sing praises to the Lord, which welleth in Zion.
Declare among the people his doings.
When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them.
He forgeteth not the cry of the humble.
Have mercy upon me, O Lord.
Consider my trouble which I suffer, other than that hate me.
Thou that leftest me up in the gates of death,
that I may show forth all thy praise in the gates of the Doctrine of Zion,
I will rejoice in thy salvation.
The heathen are struck down in the pit that they made,
and the net which they hid is their own foot taken.
The Lord is known by the judgment which he executeth.
The wicked is snared in the work of his own hands.
Hegarim, Seila.
The wicked shall be turned into hell,
and all the nations that forget God.
For the needy shall not always be forgotten.
The expectation of the poor shall not perish forever.
Arise, O Lord. Let not male prevail.
Let the heathen be judged in thy sight.
Put them in fear, O Lord, that the nations may know themselves to be but men.
Seila.
Chapter 10
Why standest thou afar off, O Lord?
Why hidest thou with thyself in times of trouble?
The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor.
Let them be taken into devices that they have imagined.
For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire,
and blessed the covetous, and the Lord abhorreth.
The wicked, through the pride of his countenance,
will not seek after God.
God is not in all of his thoughts.
His ways are always grievous.
Thy judgments are far above out of his sight.
As for all his enemies, he puffeth at them.
He hath said in his heart,
I shall not be moved, for I shall never be in adversity.
His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud.
Under his tongue is mischief and vanity.
He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages.
In the secret places doth he murder the innocents.
His eyes are provably set against the poor.
He lieth and waits secretly, as a lion in his den.
He lieth and waits to catch the poor.
He doth catch the poor when he doth him into his net.
He croucheth and humbleeth himself,
that the poor may fall by his strong ones.
He hath said in his heart,
God hath forgotten. He hath hideth his face.
He will never see it.
Arise, O Lord! O God, what's with thine hands?
Forget not the humble.
Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God?
He hath said in his heart, Thou wilt not require it.
Thou hast seen it, for thou beholdest mischief and spikes,
to equate it with thy hands.
The poor committeth themselves unto thee.
Thou art the helper of the fatherless.
Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man.
Seek out his wickedness till thou find none.
The Lord is king for ever and ever.
The heathen are perished out of his land.
Lord, thou hast heard the desire of the humble.
Thou wilt prepare their hearts.
Thou wilt cause thine ear to hear,
to judge the fatherless and the oppressed,
that the man of the earth may no more oppress.
Chapter 11
And the Lord put on my trust.
How say ye to my soul, flee as a bird to your mountain?
For lo, the wicked bend their bow.
They make ready their arrow upon the strain,
that they may privilege shoot at their uprightened hearts.
If the foundations be destroyed,
what can the righteous do?
The Lord is in his holy temple.
The Lord's throne is in heaven.
His eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men.
The Lord trieth the righteous,
but the wicked in him that loveth violence is all hated.
Upon the wicked he shall win snares,
fire, and brimstone, and a horrible tempest.
They shall be the portion of their cup.
For the righteous Lord loveth righteousness.
His countenance doth behold their upright.
And the Psalms 1-11.
Recording by Gabriel C.
Thank you.